ENH: Incorporate into version control with DataLad (#118)
TheAxonLab/hcph-sops: docs/data-management/post-session.md

        └── sub-pilot_ses-01_task-rest_physio.tsv.gz
```

### Incorporate into version control with DataLad

!!!info "Initiating the version-controled dataset"

    Once at the beginning of the project, the DataLad[1] dataset will be created:

    - [ ] Add stockage horus as an SSH remote.

>     - [ ] The preprocessing will be executed on an HPC. If datalad is not installed on the HPC, the most convenient user-based installation can be achieved by using Conda. 

Reviewer: Not sure this is relevant: ideally, it shouldn't matter where you run things. Also, I would prefer to defer the configuration of the execution platform to other documentation sources (such as the DataLad handbook).

>         !!!warning "Do not run the installation of Conda and DataLad in the login node"
>             I remind you that the login node is a shared resource meant for users to log in, submit jobs, and manage their workflows. It is recommended to use the login node only for tasks related to job submission, data management, and preparing job scripts. Indeed, running resource-intensive tasks or building containers on the login node can negatively impact the overall performance and responsiveness of the system for all users. Instead, open an interactive session in SLURM using the command below. You will need an interactive session to read the license and accept it.
>             ```
>             srun --nodes=1 --ntasks-per-node=1 --time=01:00:00 --pty bash -i
>             ```

Reviewer: Like above, this is specific to HPC, so if we end up running it locally, this would not have effect. Let me suggest the following changes:

- Make it a foldable admonition
- Downscale the priority to "tip"
- Separate new sentences into new lines for readability.

```suggestion
        ??? tip "Execution within High Performance Computing (HPC)"
        
            HPC systems typically recommend using their login nodes only for tasks related to job submission, data management, and preparing job scripts.
            Therefore, the execution of resource-intensive tasks such as *fMRIPrep* or building containers on login nodes can negatively impact the overall performance and responsiveness of the system for all users.
            Interactive sessions are a great alternative when available.
            For example, in the case of systems operating SLURM, the following command would open a new interactive session:
            ``` bash
            srun --nodes=1 --ntasks-per-node=1 --time=01:00:00 --pty bash -i
            ```
```

Author: @oesteban As you mentioned, the configuration commands were extracted from the DataLad Handbook.
However, I think having a condensed version of the relevant commands to execute our project is still valuable. Especially for us, in case I (or even more relevant someone else that has not work on the project) have to come back to these steps in one year, having them documented clearly would be of great help. Also, in the spirit of reproducibility, it is essential to detail the steps executed to obtain the results, so the SOPs seem like an excellent place to provide those details.

Overall, I like this solution because it puts less emphasis on those details, but they are not removed completely.

>         Run the three lines of code below to install Conda and install DataLad.
>         ```
>         wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
>         bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
>         conda install -c conda-forge datalad
>         conda install -c conda-forge datalad-container
>         ```
>         
>         !!!info "Cannot call DataLad"
>             If calling DataLad returns the following error `ImportError: cannot import name 'getargspec' from 'inspect' (/home/users/cprovins/miniconda3/lib/python3.11/inspect.py)`. You can resolve this dependency issue by creating a Conda environment with a lower version of Python.
>             ```
>             conda create -n "datalad" python=3.8
>             conda activate datalad
>             ```
> 
>     - [ ] Next, don't forget to configure the Git identity.
>         ```
>         cd ~
>         git config --global --add user.name "Bob McBobFace"
>         git config --global --add user.email bob@example.com
>         ```

Reviewer: Again, let's lower the visibility of this:

```suggestion
    ??? tip "Installing DataLad with Conda"
    
        - [ ] Install some conda distribution (in this example we show *Miniconda*):
            ``` bash
            wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
            bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
            ````
        - [ ] Install DataLad:
            ``` bash
            conda install -c conda-forge datalad
            conda install -c conda-forge datalad-container
            ```
        - [ ] Next, don't forget to configure the Git identity.
            ``` bash
            git config --global --add user.name "Bob McBobFace"
            git config --global --add user.email bob@example.com
            ```

        !!! warning "DataLad"

            If calling DataLad returns the following error:
                ``` bash
                ImportError: cannot import name 'getargspec' from 'inspect' (/home/users/cprovins/miniconda3/lib/python3.11/inspect.py)`.
                ```
            You can resolve this dependency issue by creating a Conda environment with a lower version of Python.
                ``` bash
                conda create -n "datalad" python=3.8
                conda activate datalad
                ```
```

    - [ ] Go in the repository where you usually store datasets and create an empty DataLad dataset by running:
        ```
        cd /data/datasets/
        datalad create -c yoda "hcph"
        ```
        Using the `yoda` procedure builds the infrastructure of your dataset so it is compliant to the [Yoda principles](https://handbook.datalad.org/en/latest/basics/101-127-yoda.html).

> - [ ] Move the data into the DataLad dataset and save the files in the dataset history (thus starting to the version-control mechanism) using the command below. Replace "session_id" with the number of the session:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Move the data into the DataLad dataset and save the files in the dataset history (thereby starting the version-control mechanism) using the command below:
```

>     ```
>     datalad save -m "add ses-{session_id}"
>     ```

Reviewer: We need to insert here how to configure the siblings so that everything is concluded with `datalad push`. Otherwise, data will not be safely replicated somewhere and will not be shareable.

```suggestion
    ``` bash
    datalad save -m "add: first batch of currently existing data"
    datalad push
    ```
- [ ] As new sessions are run, move the data into their corresponding location in the dataset structure and save the data (remember to replace `<session_id>` in the command line):
    ``` bash
    datalad save -m "add: session <session_id>"
    datalad push
    ```

```

!!!info "Initiating the version-controled dataset"

    Once at the beginning of the project, the DataLad [1] dataset should be created. In case, the preprocessing will be executed on an HPC, check out the foldable admonition for tips on how to install DataLad on the HCP.  

    ??? tip "Installing DataLad with Conda"
        If datalad is not installed on the HPC, the most convenient user-based installation can be achieved by using Conda.

        !!! tip "Execution within High Performance Computing (HPC)"
    
            HPC systems typically recommend using their login nodes only for tasks related to job submission, data management, and preparing job scripts.
            Therefore, the execution of resource-intensive tasks such as *fMRIPrep* or building containers on login nodes can negatively impact the overall performance and responsiveness of the system for all users.
            Interactive sessions are a great alternative when available.
            For example, in the case of systems operating SLURM, the following command would open a new interactive session:
            ``` bash
            srun --nodes=1 --ntasks-per-node=1 --time=01:00:00 --pty bash -i

>             ```

Reviewer 2: I don't think this particular tip should be in the "Initiating the version-controled dataset" or "Installing DataLad with Conda" admonitions. Maybe it could be moved to the beginning of `mriqc.md` where we will actually start running things (if we expect to run MRIQC on the HPC).

Author: @acionca The point I wanted to make is that you should not install DataLad on the login node. So you should open an interactive session using srun before.
It doesn't seem to get across though.
Can you rewrite it to make it clearer?

Reviewer 2: @celprov I added a few suggestions and modification in a [PR](https://github.com/celprov/hcph-sops/pull/1) on your original branch. Should you accept it, it will appear below as a commit on this PR.

Author: @acionca Oooh I didn't know you can do that :bulb:  
Thanks a lot!

        └── sub-pilot_ses-01_task-rest_physio.tsv.gz
```

### Incorporate into version control with DataLad

!!!info "Initiating the version-controled dataset"

>     Once at the beginning of the project, the DataLad[1] dataset will be created:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Once at the beginning of the project, the DataLad [1] dataset will be created:
```
I'd add a space to be uniform with the rest of the SOPs

        ??? tip "Execution within High Performance Computing (HPC)"
        
            HPC systems typically recommend using their login nodes only for tasks related to job submission, data management, and preparing job scripts.
            Therefore, the execution of resource-intensive tasks such as *fMRIPrep* or building containers on login nodes can negatively impact the overall performance and responsiveness of the system for all users.
            Interactive sessions are a great alternative when available.
            For example, in the case of systems operating SLURM, the following command would open a new interactive session:
            ``` bash
            srun --nodes=1 --ntasks-per-node=1 --time=01:00:00 --pty bash -i
            ```

    ??? tip "Installing DataLad with Conda"
    
        - [ ] Install some conda distribution (in this example we show *Miniconda*):
            ``` bash
            wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
            bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh

>             ````

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            ``` bash
            wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
            bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
            ```
```
An additional `` ` `` prevented the code snipet to render correctly

            ```
        - [ ] Next, don't forget to configure the Git identity.
            ``` bash
            git config --global --add user.name "Bob McBobFace"
            git config --global --add user.email bob@example.com
            ```
        
    - [ ] Go in the repository where you usually store datasets and create an empty DataLad dataset by running:
        ```
        cd /data/datasets/
        datalad create -c yoda "hcph"
        ```
        Using the `yoda` procedure builds the infrastructure of your dataset so it is compliant to the [Yoda principles](https://handbook.datalad.org/en/latest/basics/101-127-yoda.html).

- [ ] Move the data into the DataLad dataset and save the files in the dataset history (thereby starting the version-control mechanism) using the command below:
    ``` bash
    datalad save -m "add: first batch of currently existing data"
    datalad push
    ```
- [ ] As new sessions are run, move the data into their corresponding location in the dataset structure and save the data (remember to replace `<session_id>` in the command line):
    ``` bash
    datalad save -m "add: session <session_id>"
    datalad push
    ```

## References

> [1]: Hanke, Michael, Yaroslav O. Halchenko, Benjamin Poldrack, Kyle Meyer, Debanjum Singh Solanky, Gergana Alteva, Jason Gors, et al. “Datalad/Datalad: ## 0.14.0 (February 02, 2021).” Zenodo, February 2, 2021. <https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4495661.>

Reviewer 2: Following the DOI link leads to a "DOI Not Found" error - maybe we could cite the datalad paper ? Or the idea would be to cite the "frozen" version of datalad that will be used ?

Author: Oh thanks for catching this! I pushed a new commit to cite the paper instead (and I checked the DOI link worked this time ;) )

                module spider Python/3.8.2
                ```
                - [ ] Load python along with its dependencies (`ml` is equivalent to `module load`)
                ``` bash
                ml GCCcore/9.3.0 Python/3.8.2
                ```
            - [ ] Now that `pip` is installed, install DataLad:
                ``` bash
                pip install --user datalad
                ```
        
        ???+ tip "Installing with `conda`"
            - [ ] Install some conda distribution (in this example we show *Miniconda*):
                ``` bash
                wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
                bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
                ```
            - [ ] Install DataLad:
                ``` bash
                conda install -c conda-forge -y "datalad>=0.19.0"
                conda install -c conda-forge datalad-container
                ```
        - [ ] Finally, don't forget to configure the Git identity.
            ``` bash
            git config --global --add user.name "Bob McBobFace"
            git config --global --add user.email bob@example.com
            ```
        

>     - [ ] Go in the repository where you usually store datasets and create an empty DataLad dataset by running:
>         ```
>         cd /data/datasets/
>         datalad create -c yoda "hcph"
>         ```
>         Using the `yoda` procedure builds the infrastructure of your dataset so it is compliant to the [Yoda principles](https://handbook.datalad.org/en/latest/basics/101-127-yoda.html).

Reviewer 2: Looks good to me. I am just wondering if this part should also be done while in an interactive session of the HPC. If it is the case, I would suggest to explicitly say it:
```suggestion
    - [ ] While in an interactive session of the HPC, go in the repository where you usually store datasets and create an empty DataLad dataset by running:
        ```
        cd /data/datasets/
        datalad create -c yoda "hcph"
        ```
        Using the `yoda` procedure builds the infrastructure of your dataset so it is compliant to the [Yoda principles](https://handbook.datalad.org/en/latest/basics/101-127-yoda.html).
```

Author: @acionca I think this is not critical. `datalad create` is a lightweight operation that just creates a folder basically
